---
lab:
    title: 'Direct Connectivity'
    module: 'Module 07 - Direct Connectivity'
---
# Module 7: Direct Connectivity

- [Module 7: Direct Connectivity](#module-7-direct-connectivity)
  - [Lab: Direct connectivity](#lab-direct-connectivity)
    - [Exercise 1: Direct connections in Power BI](#exercise-1-direct-connections-in-power-bi)
      - [Task 1: Direct connectivity from the Power BI Desktop](#task-1-direct-connectivity-from-the-power-bi-desktop)
      - [Task 2: Direct connectivity from the Power BI service](#task-2-direct-connectivity-from-the-power-bi-service)


## Lab: Direct connectivity

### Exercise 1: Direct connections in Power BI

#### Task 1: Direct connectivity from the Power BI Desktop

1. Start with a blank Power BI Desktop file.

2. Connect to Azure SQL Database **AdventureWorksLT**, using **DirectQuery**.

3. Load the **SalesLT.Product** and **SalesLT.SalesOrderDetail** tables.

4. Create a chart based on the **Card** visualization.

5. Add the **OrderQty** field from the **SalesLT SalesOrderDetail** table to the chart.

6. Create a slicer based on the **Slicer** visualization.

7. Add the **SellStartDate** field from the **SalesLT Product** table to the slicer.

8. Save the desktop file as **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab07\\Starter\\Sales Orders.pbix**.

#### Task 2: Direct connectivity from the Power BI service

1. Publish the report to the Power BI service.

2. Go to **http://www.powerbi.com** and sign in using your account.

3. Go to the newly created dataset and edit the credentials required.

    > To configure the dataset settings for a DirectQuery data source, you need a Power BI Pro account.

4. Sign in using the credentials you used to sign up for Power BI service.

5. Go to the newly created Sales Orders report. You should already have a card visualization for the **OrderQty** and a slicer for the **SellStartDate**.

6. Create a chart based on the **Card** visualization.

7. Add the **LineTotal** field from the **SalesLT SalesOrderDetail** table to the chart.

8. Close Internet Explorer, and Power BI Desktop.
