---
lab:
    title: 'Importing Data into Power BI'
    module: 'Module 03 - Power BI Data'
---
# Module 3: Power BI Data

- [Module 3: Power BI Data](#module-3-power-bi-data)
  - [Lab: Importing Data into Power BI](#lab-importing-data-into-power-bi)
    - [Exercise 1: Importing Excel Files into Power BI](#exercise-1-importing-excel-files-into-power-bi)
      - [Task 1: Reduce the Size of Excel Files](#task-1-reduce-the-size-of-excel-files)
      - [Task 2: Import Excel Files](#task-2-import-excel-files)
    - [Exercise 2: Viewing Reports from Excel Files](#exercise-2-viewing-reports-from-excel-files)
      - [Task 1: View Excel Power View Sheets as Power BI Reports](#task-1-view-excel-power-view-sheets-as-power-bi-reports)


## Lab: Importing Data into Power BI

### Exercise 1: Importing Excel Files into Power BI

#### Task 1: Reduce the Size of Excel Files

1. In the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\Starter\\Project** folder, double-click **Adventure Works Sales.xlsx** to open the file.

2. On the **Product Category** worksheet, change the names of the columns to user-friendly versions.

3. Change the cell style to normal.

4. Convert the cells into a table.

5. Change the name of the table to **ProductCategory**.

6. On the **Product Subcategory** worksheet, change the names of the columns to user-friendly versions.

7. Change the cell style to normal.

8. Convert the cells into a table.

9. Change the name of the table to **ProductSubcategory**.

10. On the **Products** worksheet, change the names of the columns to user-friendly versions.

11. Change the cell style to normal.

12. Convert the cells into a table.

13. Change the name of the table to **Products**.

14. On the **Sales** worksheet, change the names of the columns.

15. Change the cell style to normal.

16. Convert the cells into a table.

17. Convert the **Order Date** cells to a date type.

18. Convert the **Unit Price**, **Unit Price Discount**, **Line Total**, and **Total Due** cells to the US dollar currency type.

19. Change the name of the table to **Sales**.

20. Save the file.

21. Close Excel 2016.

#### Task 2: Import Excel Files

1. In Internet Explorer, go to **https://powerbi.microsoft.com** and sign in to Power BI.

2. Upload the **Adventure Works Sales.xlsx** file that you formatted in the previous task.

3. Notice that the table and column names match the names of the tabs and columns in Excel.

---

### Exercise 2: Viewing Reports from Excel Files

#### Task 1: View Excel Power View Sheets as Power BI Reports

1. Open the **Adventure Works Power View.xlsx** file to look at the Power View report.

2. Import the Excel file into Power BI.

3. View the Power View report that has been converted to a Power BI report.

4. Test the **Sales Person** filter.

5. Close Internet Explorer.
