---
lab:
    title: 'Shaping and Combining Data'
    module: 'Module 04 - Shaping and Combining Data'
---
# Module 4: Shaping and Combining Data

- [Module 4: Shaping and Combining Data](#module-4-shaping-and-combining-data)
  - [Lab: Shaping and Combining Data](#lab-shaping-and-combining-data)
    - [Exercise 1: Shape Power BI Data](#exercise-1-shape-power-bi-data)
      - [Task 1: Import Data from Excel](#task-1-import-data-from-excel)
      - [Task 2: Apply Formatting to the Existing Data](#task-2-apply-formatting-to-the-existing-data)
    - [Exercise 2: Combine Power BI Data](#exercise-2-combine-power-bi-data)
      - [Task 1: Add Related Data to the Shaped Data](#task-1-add-related-data-to-the-shaped-data)


## Lab: Shaping and Combining Data

### Exercise 1: Shape Power BI Data

#### Task 1: Import Data from Excel

1. Open **Power BI Desktop**, and sign in.

2. Import the **Sales - Europe.xlsx** file from the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Starter** folder.

3. In the **Navigator** window, select **Europe**, and click **Load**.

4. Use the **New Source** to import the **Sales - North America.xlsx** file from the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Starter** folder.

5. In the **Navigator** window, select **North America**, and click **Transform Data**, to open the Power Query Editor.

#### Task 2: Apply Formatting to the Existing Data

1. In the **Queries \[2\]** pane, click **Europe** to display the data in preview mode.

2. Remove the **ProductKey** column.

3. Remove the **SalesOrderNumber** column.

4. Rename the **SalesTerritoryCountry** column to **Country**.

5. Rename the **SalesTerritoryGroup** column to **Sales Territory**.

6. Rename the **EnglishProductCategoryName** to **Main Category**.

7. Rename the **EnglishProductSubcategoryName** column to **Sub Category**.

8. Rename **EnglishProductName** to **Product**.

9. Move the **Color** column to the left.

10. In the **Queries** pane, click **North America**.

11. Remove the **ProductKey** column.

12. Remove the **SalesOrderNumber** column.

13. Rename the **SalesTerritoryCountry** column to **Country**.

14. Rename the **SalesTerritoryGroup** column to **Sales Territory**.

15. Rename the **EnglishProductCategoryName** to **Main Category**.

16. Rename the **EnglishProductSubcategoryName** column to **Sub Category**.

17. Rename **EnglishProductName** to **Product**.

18. Move the **Color** column to the left.

19. Open **Advanced Editor** to view the query that has been updated with the steps.

20. Leave Power Query Editor open for the next exercise.

---

### Exercise 2: Combine Power BI Data

#### Task 1: Add Related Data to the Shaped Data

1. Select **Europe** in the **Queries** pane.

2. Click **Append Queries**, and combine the North America data with the Europe data.

3. Use the selection menu on the Country column header to check that the data has loaded. You may need to click on **Load more** phrase to refresh the data list.

4. Use the **New Source** to import the **Country Codes.xlsx** file from the **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Starter** folder.

5. In the **Navigator** window, select **Country Codes**, and click **Load**.

6. In the **Transform** tab, select the **Use First Rows as Headers** option. 

7. Select the **Europe** query and merge the **Country Codes** table with the **Europe** table.

8. Merge the two queries based on the **Country** column in **Europe** and **Country** in **Country Codes**. 

9. Exclude the **Territory** and **Country** columns, and clear the **Use original column name as prefix** setting.

10. Move the **Code** column to the beginning of the table.

11. Rename the **Code** column as **Country Code**.

12. Apply the changes.

13. Close Power Query Editor, close Power BI Desktop without saving any changes, and then close Excel.
